First 90 days guide (#1748)
CodeYourFuture/curriculum: org-cyf-guides/content/employability/90-days/index.md

## Learning and development

For more advice on lifelong learning see our [learning guide](../learning). In your first 90 days the amount of things to learn can be overwhelming, so it is useful to have a plan for what you want to focus on and discuss it with your manager. This will typically a combination of
- The parts of the system your team is responsible for
- What your team is working on right now
- Any upskilling in particular languages or technologies you need for your role

You should also not underestimate the value of learning about the wider context, what the company sells and its different products and business model as this will help you find the right solutions to problems you encounter.

It is also useful to keep a record of the skills you learn and any achievements. You can then use this when you want to go forward for a promotion, or when you are adding this experience to your CV for your next role. It can be easy to forget some of your wins when you are absorbed in the every day.

## Asking for help

> It’s normal to have to ask for help a lot to start with, even the most seasoned tech professionals won’t know how that particular company works. It can feel like everyone knows more than you, but everyone expects you to ask questions as a new starter. However, it is important to strike the balance between trying to find the answer yourself and not wasting days on end stuck on the same thing. If you are unsure you can always ask for feedback after your first few problems as to whether you waited long enough before asking for help. Over time you will also pick up where to ask different questions, as different people will have different expertise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s normal to have to ask for help a lot to start with, even the most experienced tech professionals won’t know how that particular company works. It can feel like everyone knows more than you, but everyone expects you to ask questions as a new starter. However, it is important to strike the balance between trying to find the answer yourself and not wasting days on end stuck on the same thing. A rule of thumb is to try to work on a problem or blocker for 2 hours. If you still can't work it out, ask for help. If you are unsure, you can always ask for feedback after your first few problems as to whether you waited long enough before asking for help. Over time, you will also pick up where to ask different questions, as different people will have different expertise.
```

## Quick wins

Look for tasks that you can quickly succeed at early on to demonstrate your value to the team. In an engineering role often the best way to understand how the system and processes work is to complete a very small change and follow it all the way through to production. You could also suggest an improvement to a team process or offer to help out with any other problem you see your team struggling with that you think you can help with. Being engaged and pro-active and showing you are a team player will help you to build positive relationships with your colleagues.

## Feedback

> Some companies will have a more feedback focused culture than others, and so you may receive feedback regularly as part of a regular process or you may not. After a couple of weeks you can ask your manager how they think you are getting on. If there is anything they think you should be doing differently it is better to know sooner rather than later and it also shows you are proactively engaged in your own development by asking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some companies will have a more feedback focused culture than others, and so you may receive feedback regularly as part of a regular process or you may not. After a couple of weeks, make sure you ask your manager and another team member you are working with closely how they think you are getting on. If there is anything they think you should be doing differently, it is better to know sooner rather than later and it also shows you are proactively engaged in your own development by asking.
```
